DBM Beta Docs (#9457)
DataDog/integrations-core: postgres/README.md

| `track_activity_query_size` | `4096` | Required for collection of larger queries. Increases the size of SQL text in `pg_stat_activity` and `pg_stat_statements`. If left at the default value then queries longer than `1024` characters will not be collected. |
| `pg_stat_statements.track` | `ALL` | Optional. Enables tracking of statements within stored procedures and functions. |
| `pg_stat_statements.max` | `10000` | Optional. Increases the number of normalized queries tracked in `pg_stat_statements`. This setting is recommended for high-volume databases which see many different types of queries from many different clients. |

##### How to configure

| Deployment Method | Configuration |
| --- | --- |
| Self-hosted | [Parameters][36] are configured in the `postgresql.conf` file. |
| Amazon [RDS][37] or [RDS Aurora][38] | [DB Parameter Group][39] <br/>  Note that for RDS Aurora `pg_stat_statements` is enabled by default. |
| Google [CloudSQL][40] | [Database Flags][41] |

### Agent Database Access

The Datadog Agent requires read-only access to the database in order to collect statistics and queries.

> Connect to the **postgres** database and run the following SQL commands with superuser or a user with sufficient permissions to execute these commands. This can be done manually with [psql][43] or using any automated configuration you use for managing your databases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Connect to the **postgres** database and run the following SQL commands with superuser or a user with sufficient permissions to execute these commands. This can be done manually with [psql][43] or using any automated configuration you use for managing your databases.

For example, connect to the `postgres` database to run the commands below:
  
    ```bash
    psql -h mydb.example.com -d postgres -U postgres
    ```

```

<!-- xxx tabs xxx -->
<!-- xxx tab "Postgres ≥ 10" xxx -->

```SQL
CREATE USER datadog WITH password '<PASSWORD>';
CREATE SCHEMA datadog;
GRANT USAGE ON SCHEMA datadog TO datadog;
GRANT USAGE ON SCHEMA public TO datadog;
GRANT pg_monitor TO datadog;
CREATE EXTENSION IF NOT EXISTS pg_stat_statements;
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Additionally, if you configure the agent to connect to a database other than the default database `postgres`, enable `pg_stat_statements` in that database as well:

    ```bash
    psql -h mydb.example.com -d customdb -U postgres -c "CREATE EXTENSION IF NOT EXISTS pg_stat_statements;"
    ```
```

Author: I don't think this very useful because it's not enough to only do `pg_stat_statements`. They have to create the stored procedures as well. And it's probably not worth repeating all of the setup again here.

<!-- xxz tab xxx -->
<!-- xxx tab "Postgres ≤ 9.6" xxx -->

```SQL
CREATE USER datadog WITH password '<PASSWORD>';
CREATE SCHEMA datadog;
GRANT USAGE ON SCHEMA datadog TO datadog;
GRANT USAGE ON SCHEMA public TO datadog;
GRANT SELECT ON pg_stat_database TO datadog;
CREATE EXTENSION IF NOT EXISTS pg_stat_statements;
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Additionally, if you configure the agent to connect to a database other than the default database `postgres`, enable `pg_stat_statements` in that database as well:

    ```bash
    psql -h mydb.example.com -d customdb -U postgres -c "CREATE EXTENSION IF NOT EXISTS pg_stat_statements;"
    ```
```

Author: I don't think we should do this for the same reason as the other comment.

Get metrics from PostgreSQL in real time to:

- Visualize and monitor PostgreSQL states.
- Receive notifications about PostgreSQL failovers and events.
- Collect query statistics and execution plans. 

## Setup

> The Datadog Agent collects telemetry directly from the database by logging in as a read-only user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Datadog Agent collects telemetry directly from the database by logging in as a read-only user.

Some setup is required to begin using the PostgreSQL integration:

1. [Install the agent](/account/settings#agent) <!-- side note: this should have RDS/Self-hosted/CloudSQL links-->
2. [Configure Database Parameters](#database-configuration)
3. [Create The Datadog User And Grant Permissions](#create-the-datadog-user-and-grant-permissions)
4. [Configure the Agent](#agent-configuration)
```

| `pg_stat_statements.track` | `ALL` | Optional. Enable tracking of statements within stored procedures and functions. |
| `pg_stat_statements.max` | `10000` | Optional. Increase the number of normalized queries tracked in `pg_stat_statements`. |

##### How to configure

| Deployment Method | Configuration |
| --- | --- |
| Self-hosted | Local `postgresql.conf` file. |
| AWS [RDS](https://aws.amazon.com/rds/postgresql/) or [RDS Aurora](https://aws.amazon.com/rds/aurora/postgresql-features/) | [DB Parameter Group](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/AuroraUserGuide/USER_WorkingWithParamGroups.html) <br/>  Note that for RDS Aurora `pg_stat_statements` is enabled by default. |
| Google [CloudSQL](https://cloud.google.com/sql) | [Database Flags](https://cloud.google.com/sql/docs/postgres/flags) |

Restart the database in order for the configuration changes to take effect.

### Agent Database Access

The datadog agent requires read-only access to the database in order to collect statistics and queries.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Connect to the **postgres** database and run the following SQL commands with superuser or a user with sufficient permissions to execute these commands. This can be done manually with `[psql](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/app-psql.html)` or using any automated configuration you use to manage your database setup.
```

Author: Oh yeah good point. Forgot to mention the superuser point.

<!-- xxz tabs xxx -->

Create the function to enable the agent to collect execution plans. This is required only for [Deep Database Monitoring](#deep-database-monitoring).

```SQL
CREATE OR REPLACE FUNCTION datadog.explain_statement (
   l_query text,
   out explain JSON
)
RETURNS SETOF JSON AS
$$
BEGIN
   RETURN QUERY EXECUTE 'EXPLAIN (FORMAT JSON) ' || l_query;
END;
$$
LANGUAGE 'plpgsql'
RETURNS NULL ON NULL INPUT
SECURITY DEFINER;
```

To verify the permissions are correct, run the following commands to confirm the agent user is able to connect to the database and read the core tables:

```shell
psql -h localhost -U datadog postgres -A \
  -c "select * from pg_stat_database limit 1;" \
  && echo -e "\e[0;32mPostgres connection - OK\e[0m" \
  || echo -e "\e[0;31mCannot connect to Postgres\e[0m"

psql -h localhost -U datadog postgres -A \
  -c "select * from pg_stat_activity limit 1;" \
  && echo -e "\e[0;32mPostgres pg_stat_activity read OK\e[0m" \
  || echo -e "\e[0;31mCannot read from pg_stat_activity\e[0m"

psql -h localhost -U datadog postgres -A \
  -c "select * from pg_stat_statements limit 1;" \
  && echo -e "\e[0;32mPostgres pg_stat_statements read OK\e[0m" \

>   || echo -e "\e[0;31mCannot read from pg_stat_statements\e[0m"

Reviewer: Are these valid for 9.6 using the stored procedures?

```

> When it prompts for a password, enter the one used in the first command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When it prompts for a password, use the password you entered when you created the `datadog` user.
```

Get metrics from PostgreSQL in real time to:

- Visualize and monitor PostgreSQL states.
- Receive notifications about PostgreSQL failovers and events.
- Collect query statistics and execution plans. 

## Setup

The Datadog Agent collects telemetry directly from the database by logging in as a read-only user.

Some setup is required to begin using the PostgreSQL integration:

1. [Install the agent](/account/settings#agent) <!-- side note: this should have RDS/Self-hosted/CloudSQL links-->
2. [Configure Database Parameters](#database-configuration)
3. [Create The Datadog User And Grant Permissions](#create-the-datadog-user-and-grant-permissions)
4. [Configure the Agent](#agent-configuration)

### Agent Installation

The PostgreSQL check is packaged with the Agent. To start gathering your PostgreSQL metrics and logs, [install the Agent][2].

### Configure Database Parameters

> Configure the following [Postgres parameters](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/13/config-setting.html). These parameters are required only for [Deep Database Monitoring](#deep-database-monitoring). **Note:** a server restart is required for these settings to take effect. For further information on these parameters, please see the [documentation](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/pgstatstatements.html).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Configure the following [Postgres parameters](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/13/config-setting.html). These parameters are required only for [Deep Database Monitoring](#deep-database-monitoring). **Note:** A server restart is required for these settings to take effect. For further information on these parameters, please see the [documentation](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/pgstatstatements.html).
```

| `pg_stat_statements.track` | `ALL` | Optional. Enable tracking of statements within stored procedures and functions. |
| `pg_stat_statements.max` | `10000` | Optional. Increase the number of normalized queries tracked in `pg_stat_statements`. This setting is recommended for high-volume databases which see many different types of queries from many different clients. |

##### How to configure

| Deployment Method | Configuration |
| --- | --- |
| Self-hosted | Parameters are configured in your `postgresql.conf` file. More information can be found in the [documentation](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/config-setting.html). |
| Amazon [RDS](https://aws.amazon.com/rds/postgresql/) or [RDS Aurora](https://aws.amazon.com/rds/aurora/postgresql-features/) | [DB Parameter Group](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/AuroraUserGuide/USER_WorkingWithParamGroups.html) <br/>  Note that for RDS Aurora `pg_stat_statements` is enabled by default. |
| Google [CloudSQL](https://cloud.google.com/sql) | [Database Flags](https://cloud.google.com/sql/docs/postgres/flags) |

### Create The Datadog User And Grant Permissions

> The datadog agent requires read-only access to the database in order to collect statistics and queries.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Datadog Agent requires read-only access to the database in order to collect statistics and queries.
```

### Configuration

> #### Postgres parameters

Author: Added an intro sentence

Configure the following [Postgres parameters](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/13/config-setting.html):

```ini
# Add pg_stats_statements to shared_preload_libraries for collection of query statistics
shared_preload_libraries = pg_stats_statements

# Collect larger query text in pg_stat_activity and pg_stat_statements
track_activity_query_size = 4096

# Collect a wider variety of queries in pg_stat_statements
pg_stat_statements.max = 10000
pg_stat_statements.track = ALL
```

* For self-hosted instances these parameters are configured in `postgresql.conf`
* For AWS [RDS](https://aws.amazon.com/rds/postgresql/) or [RDS Aurora](https://aws.amazon.com/rds/aurora/postgresql-features/) these parameters are configured through the [DB Parameter Group](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/AuroraUserGuide/USER_WorkingWithParamGroups.html)

#### Datadog user setup

<!-- xxx tabs xxx -->
<!-- xxx tab "Postgres ≤ 9.6" xxx -->

```SQL
CREATE USER datadog WITH password '<PASSWORD>';
CREATE SCHEMA datadog;
GRANT USAGE ON SCHEMA datadog TO datadog;
GRANT USAGE ON SCHEMA public TO datadog;
GRANT SELECT ON pg_stat_database TO datadog;

> ```

Reviewer: This section doesn't have any context. It just drops some SQL in front of you. It's also important to clarify what the required permissions are of the user who is going to be executing the SQL.

Create functions to enable the agent to read the full contents of `pg_stat_activity` and `pg_stat_statements`:

```SQL
CREATE OR REPLACE FUNCTION datadog.pg_stat_activity() RETURNS SETOF pg_stat_activity AS
  $$ SELECT * FROM pg_catalog.pg_stat_activity; $$
LANGUAGE sql
SECURITY DEFINER;

CREATE OR REPLACE FUNCTION datadog.pg_stat_statements() RETURNS SETOF pg_stat_statements AS
    $$ SELECT * FROM pg_stat_statements; $$
LANGUAGE sql
SECURITY DEFINER;
```

<!-- xxz tab xxx -->
<!-- xxx tab "Postgres ≥ 10" xxx -->

```SQL
CREATE USER datadog WITH password '<PASSWORD>';
CREATE SCHEMA datadog;
GRANT USAGE ON SCHEMA datadog TO datadog;
GRANT USAGE ON SCHEMA public TO datadog;
GRANT pg_monitor TO datadog;
```

<!-- xxz tab xxx -->
<!-- xxz tabs xxx -->

Create the function to enable the agent to collect execution plans:

```SQL
CREATE OR REPLACE FUNCTION datadog.explain_statement (
   l_query text,
   out explain JSON
)
RETURNS SETOF JSON AS
$$
BEGIN
   RETURN QUERY EXECUTE 'EXPLAIN (FORMAT JSON) ' || l_query;
END;
$$
LANGUAGE 'plpgsql'
RETURNS NULL ON NULL INPUT
SECURITY DEFINER;
```

> To verify the permissions are correct, run the following command:

Reviewer: Should add this for pg_stat_statements and pg_stat_activity too.

Author: Added

[Run the Agent's status subcommand][9] and look for `postgres` under the Checks section.

> ## Deep Database Monitoring (beta)

Reviewer: This is fine where it is for now, but I think this needs to work its way into the main agent conf section eventually.

[Run the Agent's status subcommand][9] and look for `postgres` under the Checks section.

## Deep Database Monitoring

<div class="alert alert-warning">
Deep Database Monitoring is currently in beta.
</div>

> Datadog **Deep Database Monitoring** enables collection of Query Metrics, Samples, and Execution plans. To get started, add the `deep_database_monitoring` and `statement_samples` settings to your postgres instance configuration:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Datadog **Deep Database Monitoring** provides deeper visibility into what is running on your database by collecting per-query Metrics, Samples, and Execution plans. To get started, add the `deep_database_monitoring` and `statement_samples` settings to your PostgreSQL instance configuration:
```
